When demand increases, your cloud capacity can be
configured to increase to keep up with demand to almost any scale.
The three primary functions built into AWS to
address increases in compute demand are bursting,
elasticity, and auto scaling.
Burstable instances provide your application a baseline level of
CPU performance with the ability to
burst to a higher level when required by your workload.
These instances are great for a series of general-purpose workloads, like microservices,
vast interactive applications, moderately sized databases,
virtual desktop environments, and lower life cycles like development and test.
AWS burstable instances are T2 and T3 instance types.
Elasticity is the ability to acquire resources as you need them,
and elasticity is also releasing resources when you no longer need them.
Scaling up and down,
and scaling out and in.
This is an automatic process for AWS services like S3.
A service isn't elastic unless it releases resources it no longer needs,
and that's another major cloud differentiator.
Auto-scaling monitors your applications based on criteria you
specify and automatically adjust capacity to maintain availability and performance.
Using AWS, auto-scaling is easy,
and once configured, your applications will be
running with increased capacity in minutes.
Auto scaling is an example of scaling up when you add servers as you need them,
and scaling down when you wind down and terminate servers you no longer need.